# LanguagePredictionUsingDecisionTree

How to run this program 

Required Installation
The program used a few auxiliary libraries. These auxiliary libraries include 
NLTK, numpy, pandas, csv. Please pip/conda install these packages before running the program 


Training Process

To train this program, you need to include 3 parameters:
1) examples - the training example file. 
2) hypothesisOut - the file to write the model to - This is a name that you can make up 
3) learning-type - which learning algorithm to train. It is either “dt” (DecisionTree) or “ada” (Adaboost)

Usage
python train.py <examples> <hypothesisOut> <learning-type>

Training files are available in the processed_data directory. Under this directory, there is a train.txt and test.txt
1) train.txt - For training
2) test.txt - For validation, checking what the accuracy the classifier achieved in this test.txt 

Warning 
The adaboost takes a while to train as it is creating a decision stump each time. To loop through 10 stumps, 
it may take up to a minute. 

Information
For decision tree, when the training is completed, it will generate a <hypothesisOut>.py file. It is creating a python if statement classifiers.

Example Run:

Training using Adaboost 
python train.py processed_data/train.txt adaboostclassifier.txt ada

Training using Decision Tree
python train.py processed_data/train.txt decisiontreeClassifier.py dt

Prediction 

To train this program, you need to include 2 parameters:
1) hypothesis - the best classifier generated by decision tree or adaboost 
2) file - the test file 

The prediction will print out whether it predicted it as english or dutch in the console 

Usage
python predict.py <hypothesis> <file>

Predicting Example Run: 
python predict.py dt processed_data/test1_prof.dat
